README.md, before:

# Random-Password-Generator
A repository for a simple web app that allows users to generate a safe random password for their various accounts that they may have.

## Proposal
My workplace deals with a large amount of confidential data that must be accessed using secure usernames and passwords on various platforms. Cybersecurity has recently been highlighted as a key aim for the organisation and part of this includes using more secure passwords to avoid leaks of confidential information that can lead to reputational damage. It can be hard to come up with a random collection of numbers or letters for a password which would generally be very secure option so instead you have people using easily guessable passwords for ease such as their name or birthday month. In order to reduce the burden of coming up with new passwords and wondering if they are secure enough, it would be so much easier if they were able to create a random password at the click of a button. This is where this very application comes into play. The aim of this app is to reduce colleagues' workloads and increase cybersecurity by creating a random collection of letters, numbers and special characters instantly. 

## Testing the app
### Initial basic test
After completing the initial HTML and JavaScript codes I decided to test out the app for myself. I began by launching it locally from my computer and the application looked as expected. I then ticked all the checkboxes and clicked the 'Generate Password' button and the application seemed to work as intended as you can see here:

![image of the initial app after selecting all possible options and generating password](https://github.com/Sadiya-Sheikh-2026/Random-Password-Generator/blob/main/images/app_test_1.png)

However, with further testing I noticed that when selecting just to include special characters or just to include numbers, the results were not as expected which can be seen below:

![image of the initial app after selecting the 'special characters' option](https://github.com/Sadiya-Sheikh-2026/Random-Password-Generator/blob/main/images/app_test_1.2.png)

![image of the initial app after selecting the 'numbers' option](https://github.com/Sadiya-Sheikh-2026/Random-Password-Generator/blob/main/images/app_test_1.3.png)

From this I was able to see that there was a bug in the JavaScript file which had swapped the funcitonality of the two buttons. Following this I was able to edit the file to fix the bug.

Commit message:

Update README.md to add user persona
Created a user persona on figma and added to the proposal section of the README

README.md, after:

# Random-Password-Generator
A repository for a simple web app that allows users to generate a safe random password for their various accounts that they may have.

## Proposal
My workplace deals with a large amount of confidential data that must be accessed using secure usernames and passwords on various platforms. Cybersecurity has recently been highlighted as a key aim for the organisation and part of this includes using more secure passwords to avoid leaks of confidential information that can lead to reputational damage. It can be hard to come up with a random collection of numbers or letters for a password which would generally be very secure option so instead you have people using easily guessable passwords for ease such as their name or birthday month. In order to reduce the burden of coming up with new passwords and wondering if they are secure enough, it would be so much easier if they were able to create a random password at the click of a button. This is where this very application comes into play. The aim of this app is to reduce colleagues' workloads and increase cybersecurity by creating a random collection of letters, numbers and special characters instantly. 

To represent the average user I created a user persona in figma which can be seen here:

![image of user persona](https://github.com/Sadiya-Sheikh-2026/Random-Password-Generator/blob/main/images/Steve_persona_template.png)

As seen above, it would be extremely helpful to have the password generator app as it would help the entire team to become more cybersecure. There is a continuous use case for the app as new members will inevitably join the team and will need to set up accounts on various platforms. Also, some platforms require users to change passwords often so it will also be of use then. Following this, I decided that it was appropriate to proceed with creating this web application.

## Testing the app
### Initial basic test
After completing the initial HTML and JavaScript codes I decided to test out the app for myself. I began by launching it locally from my computer and the application looked as expected. I then ticked all the checkboxes and clicked the 'Generate Password' button and the application seemed to work as intended as you can see here:

![image of the initial app after selecting all possible options and generating password](https://github.com/Sadiya-Sheikh-2026/Random-Password-Generator/blob/main/images/app_test_1.png)

However, with further testing I noticed that when selecting just to include special characters or just to include numbers, the results were not as expected which can be seen below:

![image of the initial app after selecting the 'special characters' option](https://github.com/Sadiya-Sheikh-2026/Random-Password-Generator/blob/main/images/app_test_1.2.png)

![image of the initial app after selecting the 'numbers' option](https://github.com/Sadiya-Sheikh-2026/Random-Password-Generator/blob/main/images/app_test_1.3.png)

From this I was able to see that there was a bug in the JavaScript file which had swapped the funcitonality of the two buttons. Following this I was able to edit the file to fix the bug.
